Art of Storytelling 

between under and over confidence, over-confidence has learning and opportunity to grow
if you don't tell your story, you'll never know your potential.
keep telling your stories even if others aren't listening 
stories are more engaging and impactful if you put your perspective.
when you are telling someone else's story, own the story 
our brain does one round of filtering to remember incidents
Remembering memories in story format helps store them for longer 
you must be hero/protagonist in the stories you tell.
To convey the same emotions, use phrases that your audience would already know.
Borrow words from history to convey your point with impact Read and listen to more stories as it expands your creativity.
We build connection via literature, theme, intellect or emotions.
Understand the audience by judging reactions and engagement.
A story is the journey of a character from point A to point B.
Story is a journey of a character. Stories are journeys of change or journeys of quest. social and political environment has to be relevant.
Figure the destination before the journey of the story. Audience cares more about 'How it happened' vs 'what happened'. 
Set expectations at the start, then fulfill or reverse them.
Top storytellers have written and thrown away many drafts, so remember not to judge each attempt.
A story has 4 elements : Character, Journey, Outcomes and Setting.
Setting expectation helps in getting audience interested. Never finish telling your stories without completing them.
We connect through universal suffering and pain of the characters. 2 types of suffering: Unfulfilled ambition or Unfair incidents 
Emotional memory is a library of past memories with emotions Emotional library: organizing memories by specific emotions
It is important to enjoy the story yourself first, before worrying about the audience.
Listening to others helps in understand the traits of good and bad storytellers and stories.
Believe 100% in the story you tell others, even if it is not your story originally.



Step
1. start reading and listening to stories around you.
2. start actively participating in the stories of others 
3. Tell your stories without the dear of failure and humiliation.
4. Add your perspective in your favourite stories.
5. Evaluate if your story can be told with lesser word by re-writing them.
6. Practice telling different stories to different audience groups.
7. Create the set-up, journey, ending and setting of your story.
8. Convey the emotions of the story by using simple examples.
9. Perform in the theatre of your mind by feeling the emotions.





sari basti apani hai ye bhi toh ek fankari hai ,
varna badan ko chod krr apana jo kuch hai sarkari hai.
aur kashti prr aach aa aye toh hath kalam karva dena,
aab Lalo patwar muze de do ye meri jimedari hai.

